---
summary: >-
  The blog post reflects on the author's experience of ringing in the new year,
  filled with a mix of optimism and anxiety about the future. Despite the
  uncertainties and challenges facing the world, the author finds hope in their
  Christian faith and the belief that God's presence and promises can sustain
  them through the coming year.
---
# On New Years 2024

3…2…1…Happy New Year!

As I rung in the new year with my family I was filled with all the same measured optimism as any other year. I’ve made plans to do good things this year. I plan to continue school, start new creative projects and to deepen my relationships. I’ve readied a new years resolution (which I’m usually good at sticking to) and have every intention of keeping up with my last years resolution. I had a great holiday filled with encouragement and love (and food). The future is looking bright. And yet, for the first time, the night slipped into an unmeasured anxiety, in the same way that new years eve seamlessly slides into new years day. The night was filled with undertones of family relationship struggles (the kind that are never spoken of over a whisper and yet are louder than any yell) that sparked a deeper conversation between me and my grandmother. I realized as I talked to her that I needed her wisdom and much more her comfort as some of my worried thoughts of the future bubbled to the surface. I’m in that young adult stage where every deep conversation circles back around to romantic relationships because everyone is deeply worried about the subject (though some pretend not to be) and no one knows what they’re doing. And how could they? I am blessed to have a blended family where I’m on good terms with all my family. I have three sets of grandparents and three wonderful wide and well connected families. And yet, I can count on both hands (maybe even one hand) the number of martial relationships in my families that haven’t ended in divorce. With Ukraine, Palestine, and probably the U.S. in the near future, at war, human violence is very present and very real to my imagination. I’m at a place where I’m trying to figure out what I’m doing with my life and I look around and it seems like the entire world is trying to figure out what it’s doing at the same time. We are being driven deeper into technologies, ideologies, and economic systems that divide us so that we can create our own Edens. Our own little outpost of pleasure, where we invite in only who we want. The people who agree. The people who are like us. And truly I can think of no greater hell than the heaven of our own making. For in forcefully creating a life that is only for being entertained, for being happy, for being right, for being comfortable, we forfeit the beauty of the entire world, with all it’s troubles and inconveniences, for a cheap snow globe imitation that only snows when you shake it. But I digress, the future disturbs me, to say the least. For some, the christian belief that there is new creation after death and that we can live forever with God and each other in complete joy is hard to believe. But for me, in times like these, the christian belief that heaven has really come and is really coming to earth in the here and now is a much harder truth to buy into. Coming hot off of Advent season, the truth that Jesus is really, right now, a living hope for us, is fresh in my mind. Can’t shake it. And we are not the first nor the last to dare to hope in God through an uncertain and disturbing future. I think to those Israelites wandering through the wilderness for forty years looking for a home, to those that sat ransacked, beaten, and exiled in Babylon asking for rescue, to those that sat in quite hope for a savior in the period between the testaments, to the christians huddled in shushed houses as their friends and family were burned alive on stakes in the Roman streets, to the African Americans who walked constantly under the shadow of death and yet spoke confidently about a future very unlike their present, and how they waited, how they hoped, how they longed for something, how they endured. What could we learn from such patience? From such fortitude? What might we gain from daring to hope in the God these people believed on? How would our lives look different if we hoped even past fear of death and through anxieties and let that influence our actions? Questions that deserve to be worked out in every heart, not least of all mine. But for now, the thought that the God that got me through last year will be with me this year is enough to help me sleep tonight. God bless.

> May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope.
> 
> Romans 5:13 ESV
